Solaris (novel) Bp 46 languages ~

Article Talk Read Edit View history :

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Solaris (/so'la:ris/) is a 1961 science fiction novel by Polish writer Stanistaw Lem. It
follows a crew of scientists on a hovering near-surface research facility as they attempt

Solaris

to understand an extraterrestrial intelligence, which takes the form of a vast ocean on
the titular alien planet. The novel is one of Lem's best-known works.|2)

The book has been adapted many times for film, radio, and theater. Prominent film
adaptations include Andrei Tarkovsky's 1972 version and Steven Soderbergh's 2002
version, although Lem said that the films shifted away from the book's thematic
emphasis on the limitations of human rationality.

Plot summary [edit]

Solaris chronicles the ultimate futility of attempted communications with the
extraterrestrial life inhabiting a distant alien planet named Solaris. The planet is almost
completely covered with an ocean of black, gelatinous material that forms a single,
planet-encompassing entity. Terran scientists conjecture it is a living and sentient being,
and attempt to communicate with it.

Cover of the first edition

Kris Kelvin, a psychologist, arrives aboard Solaris Station, a scientific research station Author Stanistaw Lem
hovering near the oceanic surface of Solaris. The scientists there have studied the Cover artist K.M. Sopoéko
planet and its ocean for many decades, mostly in vain. A scientific discipline known as Language Polish

Solaristics has degenerated over the years to simply observing, recording and Genre ecioncertiction
categorizing the complex phenomena that occur on the surface of the ocean. Thus far, Publisher MON, Walker (US)!")

the scientists have only compiled an elaborate nomenclature of the phenomena, and do publication date 1961

not yet understand what they really mean. Shortly before Kelvin's arrival, the crew Publication place Polish People's Republic

exposed the ocean to a more aggressive and unauthorized experimentation with a high- published in 1970

energy X-ray bombardment. Their experimentation gives unexpected results and English

becomes psychologically traumatic for them as individually flawed humans. Media type Print (hardcover and
paperback)

The ocean's response to this intrusion exposes the deeper, hidden aspects of the Audio

personalities of the human scientists, while revealing nothing of the ocean's nature Pages 204

itself. It does this by materializing physical simulacra (including human ones) based on ISBN 0156027607

the unpleasant repressed memories of the researchers, who visit the corresponding ocLe 10072735 2

researchers. Kelvin confronts memories of his dead lover and guilt about her suicide, Dewey Decimal 891.8/537 19

which constitutes a significant part of the plot. The "visitors" of the other persons are LC Class PG7158.L392 253 1985

only alluded to.

All efforts to make sense of Solaris's activities prove futile.